TODO.md, before:

# TODO
This file contains ideas for future additions/improvements

------

## Evals:
- dim reduction experiments

## CURRENT REFACTOR:
- move config back to a toml file
- Make `vectorizer.py` call `generate_non_static_vocab` on the fly for when new datasets are used
- Revise doc strings
- Option to vectorize a list of documents (independent of IDs) OR a directory of JSONL files (will expect IDs)
- Vocab: change non-static handling and convert pickle to text file delimited by newlines?
- At the end of refactor, if I use nlp.pipe, finetune the multiprocessing options
- Possibly add unit tests?
- Look into better ways to package the code
- Possible make gram2vec pip installable?
- make grammarvectorize a function instead?


## Code improvements:
- Verbalizer is fine for now. Touch base with Ansh in near future

## Other:
- Start preparing the features for when they need to be multilingual



## To check out
- None

## PAN22 paper
https://publications.aston.ac.uk/id/eprint/44368/1/Stamatatos_2022_VoR.pdf

Commit message:

moved spacy to own module, implemented more spacy extensions

TODO.md, after:

# TODO
This file contains ideas for future additions/improvements

------

## Evals:
- dim reduction experiments

## CURRENT REFACTOR:
- move config back to a toml file
- Make `vectorizer.py` call `generate_non_static_vocab` on the fly for when new datasets are used
- Revise doc strings
- Option to vectorize a list of documents (independent of IDs) OR a directory of JSONL files (will expect IDs)
- Vocab: change non-static handling and convert pickle to text file delimited by newlines?
- At the end of refactor, if I use nlp.pipe, finetune the multiprocessing options
- Possibly add unit tests?
- Look into better ways to package the code
- Possible make gram2vec pip installable?
- make grammarvectorize a function instead?
- test time and performance between small and medium spacy english models
- after code is working, convert the lists in `load_spacy` to generators instead and see if that provides a speed boost


## Code improvements:
- Verbalizer is fine for now. Touch base with Ansh in near future

## Other:
- Start preparing the features for when they need to be multilingual



## To check out
- None

## PAN22 paper
https://publications.aston.ac.uk/id/eprint/44368/1/Stamatatos_2022_VoR.pdf
